---
date: '2018-01-25'
title: 'Groundfish synopsis report / MP approach steering committee meeting'
output: pdf_document
---

# Meeting objectives

Review and confirm agreement with the semi-final project charter.

Ensure everyone has an up-to-date understanding of the current project status focussing mainly on the synopsis report.

Discuss a number of outstanding issues and make decisions as a group where possible.

# Project charter

- any proposed edits?

# Status

- R package design: `get_*()` (data is cached), `plot_*()`, `fit_*()`, `make_synopsis()`, ...
- Relies on Norm's SQL procedures if possible
- Usable for standardized data extraction/processing and plotting for one species or all species
- Elise now joined project: hook and line CPUE, maturity code table, Res Doc/SAR references, fixing my SQL, baptism by fire with advanced R/Git
- indicating survey reliability *(to discuss)*
- showing male/female age frequencies *(slide)*
- age/length frequency weighting *(to discuss)*
- maturity ogive fits / plotting *(to discuss)*
- fast commercial trawl CPUE model *(to discuss)*
- trawl effort plots *(to discuss)*
- will switch length frequency plots to (weighted) histograms
- poster + talk at Western Groundfish Conference (hopefully)
- waiting until after this meeting to update plots / layout and clean up code

# Synopsis issues to discuss:

## Effort and commercial CPUE

1. effort: yes or no? trawl and hook and line?
1. CPUE: yes or no? trawl only? what spatial regions? standardized and raw? *(slides)*
1. requires agreement on defining the 'fleet', e.g. total positive tows >= 100, at least 4 years with 4 trips with positive tows
1. effort measurement for CPUE hook and line map: fishing events?

## Ages/lengths

1. show aging precision? *(slide)*
1. age/lengths for unsorted commercial?
1. which surveys for ages and lengths?
1. male/female for ages/lengths? scaling within whole year? *(slides)*
1. length/age frequency weighting algorithm *(slides)*

## Biomass index trends *(slide)*

1. which surveys for biomass indices? 
1. how to visualize survey reliability?
1. any indication of relative biomass across spatial regions? 

## Growth and maturity

1. unsorted commercial and survey combined for growth, weight, and maturity?
1. maturity model? logistic/double-normal? binomial error or NLS to proportions? *(slide)*
1. maturity for both sexes?

## Descriptive text

Current plan:

1. taxonomic information (taxize package)
1. last research document and SAR (BibTeX citation)
1. TAC/management scheme
1. any special notes about the data quality for the stock
1. status with COSEWIC/SARA if any
1. rebuilding plan/conservation measures
1. your idea here

# Help wanted

1. double check proportion weighting code
1. guide through technical working group formation
1. TAC, management, rebuilding dataset?
1. local reference databases of Res Docs / SARs?
1. look over CPUE delta approach if showing CPUE / including model in package
