**An automated synopsis of the state of Pacific Canadian groundfish and climate impacts**

Sean C. **Anderson**^1^, Elise A. Keppel^1^, Andrew M. Edwards^1^, Philina A.
English^1^, Eric J. Ward^2^

^1^Pacific Biological Station, Nanaimo, British Columbia, Canada. E-mail:
sean.anderson@dfo-mpo.gc.ca

^2^Northwest Fisheries Science Center, Seattle, WA, USA

Modern survey and fishery monitoring programs generate vast quantities of
biological and environmental data. However, translating the data into measures
of population and ecosystem health that are useful to fellow scientists, the
public, resource managers, and the Indigenous people and fishing-industry
collaborators who help collect the data remains a challenge. In British
Columbia, Canada, survey- and commercial-monitoring programs produce data on
over over 100 groundfish species, but personnel limitations have historically
left the majority of such data unreported. To address this, we developed an
automated data-synopsis report for 113 groundfish species in Pacific Canadian
waters. Our report includes visualizations of temporal trends and spatial
distributions of commercial catches and survey indices, and data on age-length
frequencies, maturity, and growth, presented in a standardized format for each
species. The report facilitates discussions on stock-assessment and
survey-program prioritization, increases transparency about our data holdings,
and makes the data available for regular review by all interested parties. We
describe lessons learned while developing this report, insights the project has
yielded thus far, and how ongoing work will further enhance the utility of this
reporting tool. One important next step is to incorporate environmental data in
the form of climate velocities—the speed and direction with which a population
would have to shift to maintain consistent climatic conditions—to provide a
window into potential climate impacts on Pacific Canadian groundfish species.
